---
title: "Reproducible Research with R"
author: "Anthony Davidson"
date: "January 2022"
output: html_document
---
  
```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
```

# IAE Workshop {.tabset .tabpills}

Reproducibility is all around us. From the lab protocols we develop to the publications and reports generated from the data we collect. I have combined several different resources in the open science community to construct a collection of reproducible resources for within our institute and the wider UC community.

The IAE is a diverse instutite that ranges from freshwater to genetics centres. These resources are applied to these aspects of research but the overall reproducibility guide is setup to add different labs, angles and datastructures using the overall repository as a template and resource base for each lab. To keep the version control somewhat "clean", please apply a gitflow approach to forking and branching this repository.

## Microbe introduction

Microbes control the world! And with advances in molecular techniques, esp. DNA sequencing, we can explore the microbial side with ever increasing depth and breadth. But the data generated by sequencing the microbial world is bigish and weird. Most bioinformatic tools don't handle the taxonomic markers that we like to sequence very well. There are a few specialized programs for processing phylogenetic marker sequences, my preferred program is mothur <http://www.mothur.org/wiki/MiSeq_SOP>. We will use mothur generated OTU table (species by sample matrix) into R to explore the data and learn how to make publication quality figures. Data can be downloaded <https://drive.google.com/open?id=1CWSTfQaMILXsp7WFqAKAzvPDWzcTh6ee>


## Bayesian modelling


# Basic Schedule {.tabset .tabpills}

As you can see above there is quite a bit of material within this document. To help work through the resources and approaches to find a workflow that fits the research you are conducting we can run workshops or sessions on different sections of the methodology.


## Option 1: Day course

One option is we could roughly follow this, but the exact amount of time we spend on each topic will be adjusted depending on the class. In class discussions and commands will be posted in an etherpad <https://public.etherpad-mozilla.org/p/mars2018reproComm>

Day|Session|Topic
------|-------|--------
Day 1|Morning| Introduction to communities <https://krmaas.github.io/MARS-2018reproducibleStats/intro.communities.html>
.|.| Reproducible Research and R
.|.| Importing data into R
.|Afternoon| ggplot
.|.| Subsetting, joining, data management
Day 2|Morning| Multivariate stats
.|.| More ggplot
.|Afternoon| Hypothesis testing
.|.| Indicator species analysis